add _posts/2022-06-22-#23418.md (#520)
bitcoin-core-review-club/website: _posts/2022-06-22-#23418.md

---
layout: pr
date: 2022-06-22
title: "Fix signed integer overflow in prioritisetransaction RPC"
pr: 23418
authors: [MarcoFalke]
components: ["rpc/rest/zmq", "mempool"]
host: MarcoFalke
status: upcoming
commit:
---

## Notes

* In C++, unsigned integer overflow is well defined and often used by design.

>  Signed integer overflow, on the other hand, is undefined behavior.

Reviewer: Maybe a good link to add?
```suggestion
 Signed integer overflow, on the other hand, is [undefined behavior](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/ub).
```

---
layout: pr
date: 2022-06-22
title: "Fix signed integer overflow in prioritisetransaction RPC"
pr: 23418
authors: [MarcoFalke]

> components: ["rpc/rest/zmq", "Mempool"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
components: ["rpc/rest/zmq", "mempool"]
```

host: MarcoFalke
status: upcoming
commit:
---

## Notes

* In C++, unsigned integer overflow is well defined and often used by design.

>   However, signed integer overflow is in a strict sense, undefined behavior

Reviewer 2: I think this simplification is still equally accurate?
```suggestion
 Signed integer overflow, on the other hand, is undefined behavior
```

>   However, signed integer overflow is in a strict sense, undefined behavior
>   (UB).

Reviewer 2: Since the abbreviation isn't used anywhere, I'd just leave it out?
_edit: noticed that you use UB in the PR description. Would still suggest to leave it out here, and instead update the PR description to describe the full acronym of UB there._
```suggestion
  However, signed integer overflow is in a strict sense, undefined behavior.
```

* In practice, signed integer overflow will usually manifest by "wrapping
  around". For example, adding two postive values `int{0x7ffffffd}` and
  `int{10}` will result in a negative value of `-2147483641`.

> * This doesn't mean that signed integers should be avoided. In fact signed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* This doesn't mean that signed integers should be avoided. In fact, signed
```

>   integers should normally be preferred for arithmetic calculations, like

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  integers should normally be preferred for arithmetic calculations such as
```

  addition or subtraction. Care should be taken to pick an integer width that
  is large enough to fit all possible values at runtime. Commonly, this is

>   `int`, `int32_t`, or `int64_t`. Also, user provided values should be checked

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  `int`, `int32_t`, or `int64_t`. User provided values should also be checked
```

  to be in range as early as possible.

* Compilers such as gcc and clang can instrument the binary to detect signed
  integer overflow with the flag
  [`-fsanitize=signed-integer-overflow`](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/UndefinedBehaviorSanitizer.html).
  In Bitcoin Core it can be set via `./configure --with-sanitizers=signed-integer-overflow`.

## Questions

1. Did you review the PR? [Concept ACK, approach ACK, tested ACK, or NACK](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#peer-review)?

1. What does the `prioritisetransaction` RPC?

> 1. Did you compile Bitcoin Core with the `signed-integer-overflow` sanitizer?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Were you able to compile Bitcoin Core with the `signed-integer-overflow` sanitizer?
```

>    Did you reproduce the bug manually by calling the RPC or by running the fuzz

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Were you able to reproduce the bug manually by calling the RPC or by running the fuzz
```

   test?

1. Why is it *impossible* to fix this issue by limiting the range of possible
   values a user can enter?

> 1. Enumerate what different approaches were discussed in the pull request and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Enumerate the different approaches that were discussed in the pull request and
```
